hi I'm Katherine young family dog
trainer at dogs best friend in Madison
Wisconsin at dogs best friend we use
positive reinforcement techniques to
Train basic use such as sit down stay
income positive reinforcement simply
means using something that your dog
likes to increase the likelihood that
they will offer that behavior again for
most dogs food works best we use this
type of training because it's proven to
be the quickest and most reliable way to
teach an animal something new plus it's
fun for both you and your dog
to teach sit I'm going to move a tree up
and back until Mickey's rear end is on
the floor then I'm going to work with
the treat as his head moves ready
repeat this a few times when your dog
Lords easily into the sit position you
can start to add the purple people sit
and then Laura got into the position
this is Laura emotion will develop into
a visual cue person that looks like this
eventually you'll be able to ask your
dog to sit two different ways using a
broom cable sit or a visual cue first
started in the same position
then just like what's dead we're going
to practice this several times until the
universe quickly notice I'm not using
the word down because I want to be sure
that we can understand just one of this
that he's doing now I'm going to add the
word down and then it'll look like this
beat down and I'm out of this horrible
vision that looks like this and if he
lies
now you know what a teacher done sit and
down using the word or a training method
back with us soon for more training tips
from dogs best friend tree
you